[Set in 1984, Haruki Murakami’s expansive new novel tells the story of the deeply intertwined fates of its two remarkable protagonists, Tengo and Aomame.
Tengo and Aomame were grade school classmates who experienced a moment of mystical union when Aomame, a girl shunned for belonging to a fringe religious group, suddenly seized Tengo’s hand and looked deeply into his eyes.
Their paths diverged shortly after Aomame’s impulsive and ambiguous gesture, but each was left profoundly changed by it.
For the next 20 years, they are held in the gravitational pull of this brief moment of connection.
Now they are nearly thirty.
Tengo is a math teacher and unpublished novelist, drifting rather aimlessly through his life, with no clear sense of purpose or ambition.
Aomame is a fitness instructor, bodyworker and, most importantly, an assassin of men who have violently abused their wives.
When Komatsu, an unscrupulous and cynical editor, asks Tengo to rewrite a story by 17-year-old Fuka-Eri so that it can be considered for a major literary prize, Tengo realizes he’s entering into a devil’s bargain.
But he’s so taken with the story that he is unable to resist Komatsu’s offer.
Accepting the task opens up a Pandora’s box of perils that far surpass even Tengo’s and Komatsu’s worst fears.
The novel, Air Chrysalis, becomes an immediate best seller, attracting widespread media attention that threatens to uncover Komatsu’s and Tengo’s scam.
More ominously, the novel has aroused the ire of the “little people,” a malevolent group of other-worldly miniature spirits.
Aomame meanwhile has her own secrets.
Employed by an elderly dowager, she stealthily and expertly murders men who have abused their wives but remain unprosecuted.
When she accepts the assignment to kill the heavily protected leader of Sakigake, the very religious cult that Fuka-Eri had fled and written about in Air Chrysalis, she too enters a world of danger she never could have imagined.
She has literally entered another world, one that is nearly identical to the ordinary world of 1984 except that it has two moons in the sky.
And in this new world, the flow of time—and rules of reality—have been subtly altered.
Blurring the line between possible and impossible, linear and non-linear time, fiction and reality, fate and free will, 1Q84 is both a metaphysical mind-teaser and a fast-paced thriller where the stakes for Tengo and Aomame couldn’t be any higher.
Murakami’s most ambitious novel to date, 1Q84 is also an extraordinary love story, a story about the power of a single moment of deep connection to transcend time and space—and justify even the greatest of risks.]